◆ Binary Tree and Its Application

→ A Binary Tree is a special type of tree data structure in which every node can have a "maximum of 2 children", one is known as "Left Child" and other is known as "Right Child".
→ In Binary Tree, Every node can have either 0 child or 1 child or 2 children but not more than 2 children.

• Following are the types of Binary Tree :-
1. Strictly Binary Tree - A Binary Tree in which every node has either two or zero number of children is called Strictly Binary Tree.
                          It is also called as "Full/Proper/2- Binary Tree".
                          It is used to represent mathematical expressions.
                          
2. Complete Binary Tree - A Binary Tree in which All the nodes must have exactly two children and at every level of Complete Binary Tree, there must be 2^level number of nodes.
                          A Binary Tree in which every internal node has exactly two children and all leaf nodes are at same level. 
                          It is also called as "Perfect Binary Tree".
                          
3. Extended Binary Tree - A Binary Tree can be converted into Full Binary Tree by adding dummy nodes to the existing nodes whenever required.
                          The Full Binary Tree obtained by adding dummy nodes to binary tree.
                          
• Binary Tree Representation

Binary Tree can be represented using two methods :-
1. Array Representation - In Array Representation of Binary Tree, we use 1-D array to represent the binary tree.
                          To Represent a binary tree of depth "n" using array representation, we need 1-D array with maximum size of 2n+1.
                          
2. Linked List Representation - Here, we use double linked list to represent binary tree.
                                In Double Linked List, Every node consists of three fields :-
                                      1. 1st field for storing left child address.
                                      2. 2nd field for storing Actual data.
                                      3. 3rd field for storing right child address.
                                      
 • Following are the applications of the Binary Tree -
 1. Binary Tree is the most simpliest and efficient data structure to be used in most Software Systems. It is the properties of Binary Tree that makes it so widely used.
 2. Binary Tree is used to as the basic data structure in Microsoft Excel and spreadsheets in usual.
 3. Binary Tree is used to implement indexing of Segmented Database.
 4. Splay Tree (Binary Tree variant) is used in implemented efficient cache is hardware and software systems.
 5. Binary Space Partition Trees are used in Computer Graphics, Back face Culling, Collision detection, Ray Tracing and algorithms in rendering game graphics.
 
