◆ Linear Search Techniques and Its Complexity Analysis.

Linear Search - 
→ Linear Search is a very simple search algorithm. In this type, A sequential search is made over all the items one by one. Every item is checked and if a match is found then that particular item is returned otherwise search continues till the end of data collection.
→ It is used for unsorted and unordered small list of elements.
→ It has a time complexity of O(n) which means Time is linearly dependent on number of elements.

• Linear Search Algorithm is applied when-

→ No information is given about the array.
→ The given array is unsorted or the elements are unordered.
→ The list of data items is smaller.
 
► Linear Search Algorithm-
 
Consider-
         There is a linear array ‘a’ of size ‘n’.
         Linear search algorithm is being used to search an element ‘item’ in this linear array.
         If search ends in success, it sets loc to the index of the element otherwise it sets loc to -1.
 
Then, Linear Search Algorithm is as follows-

Linear_Search (a , n , item , loc)

Begin
for i = 0 to (n - 1) by 1 do
if (a[i] = item) then
set loc = i
Exit
endif
endfor
set loc = -1
End

• There are 3 cases to analyse an algorithm -
1. Best case-
In the best possible case,
                 The element being searched may be found at the first position.
                 In this case, the search terminates in success with just one comparison.
                 Thus in best case, linear search algorithm takes O(1) operations.
 
2. Worst Case-

In the worst possible case,
              The element being searched may be present at the last position or not present in the array at all.
              In the former case, the search terminates in success with n comparisons.
              In the later case, the search terminates in failure with n comparisons.
              Thus in worst case, linear search algorithm takes O(n) operations.
              In linear search, best-case complexity is O(1) where the element is found at the first index. Worst-case complexity is O(n) where the element is found at the last index or element is not present in the array.
